---
sku: 1016007
name: AAA Battery Card
---

## ***Introduction***

The Longan AAA battery card can supply 5V @ 500mA, running from two AAA alkaline or rechargeable batteries. It has a PS7516 high efficiency PWM DC/DC converter which could operate battery such as input voltage down to 1.9V.
It can be plugged in to any edge connector slot on one of the following boards.

* Game board
* Car board
* Sensor board
* Extension board 
* PI Hap


## ***Specifications***

* Powered with PS7516 DC/DC converter
* Provides 5V@500 mA
* 2x AAA battery holder
* Power indicator LED
* ON/OFF switch

The rear side of the battery card has a battery holder for two AAA batteries.

You can find following things on the front side of the AAA battery card.

1. ON/OFF switch
2. LED power indicator – indicates power good
3. DC/DC converter
4. Inductor
5. Edge connector

## ***Batteries***

You will need two AAA alkaline batteries (each battery provides 1.5V) or two AAA rechargeable batteries (each battery provides 1.2V). The step-up regulator circuit on the board steps up the battery voltage to 5V @ 500mA allows Carduino and other cards to function properly.

## ***Pins***

The AAA battery card has 30 pin (golden finger) edge connector. However only 4 pins are connected to the circuit of the battery card.

* VCC (Front: pin #1, #29 / Rear: pin #2, #30)
* GND (Front: pin #3, #27 / Rear: pin #4, #28)

These power pins are connected to the common power bus in Longan boards.	
The edge connector has a “white arrow head” can be found in the front side of the card indicate the pin #1. 

## ***How to Use***

Slide the power switch to the OFF position and insert the batteries in to the battery holder of the card.
<insert image>
Plug the card in to an edge connector slot of the board (We used a game board for demonstration).
Insert a Carduino in to another edge connector slot of the game board. If you can, upload the Blink sketch in to the Carduino before plugging in to the game board.
Slide the power switch to the ON position on the battery board. The power indicator LED on the battery board will emit soft green light to indicate we have enough power.

## ***Resources***

* [Eagle Files](https://github.com/Longan-Labs/EagleFile_Cards/tree/master/1016007_AAA_Battery_Card)
